Twine Script

Your journey is going to take you to the (name), the largest gathering of fellow (what are you) in the realm. There, you will present your findings on the Commandant-Lariviere families, two distinguished and ancient families in the realm. You are excited to debut a beautiful new map you have created, showing where these families appear over time. You created this map using ancient documents found in the elusive and secret (NAME) archive.

You reach into your saddlebag to look at your map one last time, only to discover that it has been stollen!

What do you do?
Try and track down the individual who stole you map?
Decide that you should start from scratch, and build a new map?

With a heavy heart, you must start your research from the beginning...
But wait!
Of course, you remember, it you have a copy of the information you used to create your map saved in your magical (name of computer.)

You venture back to your academic hole, and find your (name of computer.)

You turn it on.

Ah-ha! You've located your information, the genealogytable.
Here is what it looks like.
See, it has the names of the family members, the documents that place them in a particular location, and the geographical coordinates for that location.


But you still have to build your map over.

You must remember how you did this.
Do you remember...
Or give up.

You remember, you used a program on the interweb called CartoDB.
You type in the CartoDB link in your web browser.

Next, you must login.

You clikc on "Maps" in the top right corner.
Next, you click on "New Map."

Great, now you must import your information into CartoDB. Select "Connect Dataset" and upload your table. 

Because CartoDB is such a magical program, it has immedieately created a map based off of your table. Amazing! 
If you want to create a map using genealogy, follow this path.
If you want to create a map using (whatever), follow this path.


Let's take a look at Data View.

We can see that CartoDB has recognised the geographical coordinates (longitude and latitude), and this is what they are using to plot the point.
(image)

Let's go back to Map View.

Let's take a look at our map. 
Hmm, this doesn't like quite like the one we had made. We can see it has plotted the points, but doesn't show if there are more than 1 person at a particular point. It also doesn't show when they were there.
This won't do.

Let's see what kind of tools CartoDB has to better visualize our data.
On the right hand side, let's click on the "wizard" tab.

CartoDB shows us different options for the visualisation of our data. Let's choose Cluster.
Now Cluster looks better, we can see that 8 family members were at Mattawa.

This visualisation is better, but should we look at more?

Back at the wizard tab, we see something called "Torque." That sounds fun.
In Torque, we have the option to animate our data, in this case the family's movements across the space and through time. 
This is really nice. Do we like this, or want to see more?

Back at the wizard tab, we see something called "Heatmap." That sounds fun.
In Heatmap, we can see areas were people resided. 

This is really nice. Let's pick the style of visualisation we want:
Torque
Cluster
Heatmap

Now that we've figured out visualisations our, let's personalise it.
Should we:
Change the Background
Edit the Bubbles

Change the Background
Let's click on "Change basemap" in the bottom left corner.
See, there are different options we can choose for our map, include night-time maps, watercolour, and even uploading a background of our own.
Do we want to pick a new map?

Do we like watercolour, or dark matter?

Great, are we ready to go, or should we edit our bubbles?

Torque:
In Torque, we want to make sure we have our "year" column selected under "Time Column." This will let us move forward through time.
As our shape marker, we can have an ellipse or a rectangle.
Next, let's pick our colour, blue or red.

Cluster:
What colour should our bubble be, orange or green?

Heatmap:
How big should our marker be? 21 or 33?
Should it be animated, like Torque?
Yes: We want to make sure we have our "year" column selected under "Time Column." This will let us move forward through time.
How many seconds should it be?
No (move right to Great!)

Great! Let's publish our map, so we can head off to our gatherin of (what).
Check out your map:
Cluster--Orange
Cluster--Green

Torque--Elipse Red
Troque--Elipse Blue
Torque--Rectange Red
Torque--Rectange Blue

Heatmap--21
Heatmap--33
Heatmap--21 and animated
Heatmap--33 and animated

Phew, we finished this in the nick of time! Good luck!

You've arrived at the conference, fantastic!
Now to present your findings, and the analysis of your map.
What kinds of things do you see, looking at the map you've created?
1) It's pretty...but nothing.
2) Over time, the family appears to be moving further West, into Northern Ontario.

(Option 2)
Great! What else?
Mattawa appears to be a significant location for this family, at leas tin the early 1880s. If we look closer at our Data, many of the individuals celebrate significant life events in mattawa, including baptism, marriage etc.
However by the early 1900s, the family has moved awya from the area, closer to North Bay, and are living on the Indian Reserve.
Great! What else?
The earliest recorded ethnicity is "White." But we know from our research that the census enumerator also left this note "note."
10 years later, they are noted as Indian, then back to Half-Breed/French, then Indian, then Algonquin/Iroquois.
It seems to suggest a fluidity in identity/ethnicity, and at least by the end of the 1880s-1900s, the family is "Indian" rather than "French" or "White."
Michelle Hamilton explains that by the 1871 census,  census enumerators were instructed to pose questions (rather than to simply observe and note ethnicity.) 

 







